# Bare Metal Restore

## Preamble

This method of restoring differs from the method presented in Bacula's
documentation. The method in the documentation requires creating a
bootable CD for each server, this method in contrast does not have
that requirement.

## Prerequisites

  - any bootable Linux CD having bacula-fd on board like PLD or Ubuntu
  - most recent backup

## Procedure

### Boot from CD

    - for example, PLD does not load cciss driver during booting. load it
    manually

### Partition the target hard drive

Generally speaking refer to the previous hard drive configuration.

  - we are using the following scheme (the example is for HPs, which are
    default at potto):

        /boot   100-200 MB  /dev/cciss/c0d0p1
        /var    4-10 GB     /dev/cciss/c0d0p5
        /       ...         /dev/cciss/c0d0p7

    this configuration supposed to have the extended partition /dev/cciss/c0d0p2.

  - format them

        mke2fs /dev/cciss/c0d0p1
        mke2fs -j /dev/cciss/c0d0p5
        mke2fs -j /dev/cciss/c0d0p7

        /boot   ext2
        /var    ext3
        /       ext3

### Mount

Mount them at the target directory. The same directory name should be specified
at bconsole when the job is creating.

        mkdir /target
        mkdir /target/{boot,var,proc}
        mount /dev/cciss/c0d0p7 /target
        mount /dev/cciss/c0d0p5 /target/var
        mount /dev/cciss/c0d0p1 /target/boot

### Configure the network

  - PLD by default uses DHCP but for some cases it does not work

        ifconfig eth0 192.168.139.81 up
        route add default gw 192.168.139.2

  - Add the following lines at /etc/resolv.conf

        nameserver 192.168.40.2
        search example.com

    All other steps can be done from the target client.

### Grab the bacula configuration for client

    You need the password to get access from backup server to the client.

  - at the backup server:
    - less /etc/bacula/bacula-dir.conf
    - make lookup for the *hostname*. we are interesting the Client section and
    the Password directive there.
    - copy the content between quotes.
  - at the client:
    - vim /etc/bacula/bacula-fd.conf
    - replace:

            Name = backup01-dir
            Password = "it must be the one you copied from backup01"

    - All other Director sections must contain "Name" directive like *hostname*-mon and *hostname*-fd.
    - The Messages section must have *hostname*-dir at the "director" directive

### Restart the bacula client

        /etc/init.d/bacula restart

### Bconsole

  - Check the client status

        status client=<hostname>-fd

    If the password is correct you will get some information

  - Choose the job using restore command.
    - when it prompts to run the job change the "Where" section to /target (it
    is where you mounted the partitions)
    - you may need to change the restore client
    - when it is ready say "yes"

### Unmount

When it is finished do not forget unmount the target directory:

        unmount /target/var
        unmount /target/boot
        unmount /target

### Reboot

Check everything.

# Troubleshooting

  - Do not forget to create /proc otherwise some services will not be started
    after rebooting.
  - If the numeration of the network interfaces changed you may need to deleted
    the content of `/etc/udev/rules.d/z25_persistent-net.rules`. It will be
    filled again during reboot. Check the network setting after reboot.
  - If you restore to the client which differs from the source then you may need to check the following files:
      - /etc/network/interfaces
      - /etc/hostname
      - /etc/mailname
      - /etc/fstab
      - /etc/hosts
      - /etc/bacula/bacula-fd.conf

# Long-term backups

To make a long term full backup of a client:

  - Run the full backup job
  - Comment a job for the client (bacula-dir.conf)
  - Set "AutoPrune = no" for the client description
  - Remove or comment "File Retention" and "Job Retention" entries
  - At bconsole reload configuration:

        reload
        or
        /etc/inti.d/bacula-director restart
