# Bacula-director

  sudo -u postgres /usr/share/bacula-director/update_postgresql_tables

  You have to run this script if you upgrading from 1.38 version to 2.0.0 and higher. It changes database format from 9 to 10. It is not necessary if you use recent bacula version.

# Postgresql

  There is not easy way to upgrade. The documentation says you have to create an empty database and start using it.
  We kept old database for the case if we need to restore files from the old location. 

  If you need to restore from the old database you have to:

    1. Stop services:

        /etc/init.d/bacula-director stop
        /etc/init.d/bacula-sd stop
        /etc/init.d/bacula-fd stop
        /etc/init.d/postgresql-8.3 stop

    2. Modify postgres configuration files:

        /etc/postgresql/8.3/main/postgresql.conf
        Change port=5432 with port=5433.

        /etc/postgresql/8.1/main/postgresql.conf
        Change port=5433 with port=5432.

        Start server:
        /etc/init.d/postgresql-8.1 start
        
        You may leave port=5432 in both files but /etc/init.d/postgresql-8.x status will provide wrong information about the actual server states. In this case you have to look at the output of ps ax | grep postgres command. It will show what database location is used and consequently what database server is running. The current settings use different ports.

    3. Modify Bacula configuration files:

        /etc/bacula/bacula-sd.conf
        Uncomment Device section with Name=Storage.
        Comment Device section with Name=LHStorage.

        /etc/bacula/bacula-dir.conf
        At JobDefs sections replace Pool=LHFile with Pool=File.
        At Job section "RestoreFiles" replace Pool=LHFile with Pool=File.
        Uncomment Storage section with Name=bacup01_sd.
        Comment Storage section with Name=backup01_lh_sd.
        Uncomment Pool section with Name=File.
        Comment Pool section with Name=LHFile.

    4. Run services:

        /etc/init.d/bacula-sd start
        /etc/init.d/bacula-fd start
        /etc/init.d/bacula-director start

    5. Login to bconsole and restore necessary files.
    
    6. When restore files finished revert back the changes made at 1-3.

# Notes

  It has been noticed that the information stored in the volumes (jobids) is still available even if database does not have jobids (fresh installation). Can it be helpful in the emergency?

