### Notes

  - List of clients mounting filesystems

        /proc/fs/nfs/exports 

  - Contains information about how file systems should normally be exported.
    This is only read by exportfs.

        /etc/exports

  - Contains information about what filesystems should be exported to whom at
    the moment.

        /var/lib/nfs/etab

  - Contains a list of which filesystems actually are mounted by certain
    clients at the moment.

        /var/lib/nfs/rmtab

  - Contains information about what filesystems are exported to actual client
    (individual, not subnet or whatever) at the moment.

        /proc/fs/nfs/exports 

  - Contains the same information as /proc/fs/nfs/exports but is maintained by
    nfs-utils instead of directly by the kernel. It is only used if /proc isn't
    mounted.

        /var/lib/nfs/xtab

When a mount request arrives, mountd check .../etab to see if that
host is allowed access. If it is, an entry is placed in .../rmtab and
the filesystem is exported thus creating an entry in
/proc/fs/nfs/exports.

When you run
exportfs -io options host:/dir

then the entry in ../etab is changed, or a new one is added.
If it is a subnet/wildcard/netgroup entry, then every line in ../rmtab
is checked to see if it matches. When a match is found, a
host-specific entry is given to (or changed in) the kernel.

When you run
exportfs -a

it makes sure that all entries in /etc/exports are properly reflected
in .../etab. Any extra entries in etab are left alone. Once the
correct content of etab has been determined, rmtab is examine to
create a list of specific-host entries for any new entries in etab.
This host-specific entries are given to the kernel.

When you run
exportfs -r
it ignores the prior contents of .../etab and initialises etab to the
contents of /etc/exportfs. Then it inspects rmtab and make an changes
to /proc/fs/nfs/export that are necessary.


In general, the safest thing to do is edit /etc/exports and run
exportfs -r

If this leaves you will /proc/fs/nfs/exports containing something that
you didn't expect, please show me the details (exportfs,etab,rmtab)
and I will look again.
