## USB boot formats

The BIOS USB boot support is generally differentiated in three categories:
USB-HDD, USB-FDD and USB-ZIP.

- The USB-HDD (Hard Disk Drive) standard is the preferred choice and it
  requires the presence of a partition table in the first sector of the disk.
  You can create this type of disk using the -m option.

- The USB-FDD (Floppy Disk Drive) standard requires the presence of a
  filesystem starting from the first sector of the disk without a partition
  table. You can create this type of disk without using the -m option.

- The USB-ZIP (ZIP Drive) standard requires the presence of a device with a
  very specific geometry. Specifically, it requires a geometry with 32 sectors
  and 64 heads. It also requires the presence of a partition table with only a
  bootable partition in the fourth entry. You can create this type of disk
  using the -m and -Z option.

Generally these standards are incompatible, but using the -m, -F and -Z options
you can create a disk compatible with all of them. 

## Makebootfat

  1. Grab debs `apt-get install makebootfat syslinux`

  1. Download syslinux, for some reason debian's
     packages do not include the boot file

  1. Create drive compatible with all standards:

        usb_drive=/dev/sdb
        mbrfat_bin=/usr/lib/makebootfat/mbrfat.bin
        syslinux_lib=~/tmp/syslinux/core
        # image-dir: is any set of files you want to throw on the 
        #   new filesystem can be empty
        image_dir=~/tmp/cz

        mkdir -p ${image_dir}
        cp /usr/lib/syslinux/memdisk ${image_dir}/

        sudo makebootfat -o ${usb_drive} \
            -v \
            -Y \
            -Z \
            -F \
            -b ${syslinux_lib}/ldlinux.bss -m ${mbrfat_bin} \
            -c ${syslinux_lib}/ldlinux.sys \
            ${image_dir}

  1. Configure Syslinux

    1. rescan & mount partition

             sudo blockdev --rereadpt /dev/sdb
             sudo mount /dev/sdb1 /mnt

    1. create syslinux.cfg

            prompt 1
            label msdos
              kernel memdisk
              append initrd=msdos_7.1.img

    1. copy msdos7.1.img to root directory
    1. boot off image
