# Resources

[Converting from other Databases to PostgreSQL](http://wiki.postgresql.org/wiki/Converting_from_other_Databases_to_PostgreSQL)

# To do

## download converting utility
There are a few of them. Look at the resources above. [mysql2pgsql](http://pgfoundry.org/frs/download.php/1535/mysql2pgsql.perl) was tested.

## make a MySQL dump
It is recommended to dump the databases separately.

      mysqldump -u root --database <dbname> --flush-logs > <output.sql>

Notice. MySQL 5.0 version supports dropping the databases and the tables off. Normally it is good for backup purposes if you are going to make a clean reload of the databases into MySQL. It is not recommended when you are creating a dump to upload it into Postgres. The reason is that the converting utility recommends to strip that statements off otherwise Postgres will complain about the errors.

## convert the dump

      mysql2pgsql.pl --char2varchar --nodrop <mysql_dump.sql> <postgresql_dump.sql>

Converting may take a long time dependently on the dump size, CPU and hard drive I/O performance.

## restore the dump

  1. create the database
      
        createdb -U root <dbname>

  or

        =# create database <dbname>;
        =# grant all on database <dbname> to <user>;

  2. restore the database
      
        psql -U root <dbname> < <postgresql_dump.sql>

## errors

  1. I found a silly error complaining "\connect: could not translate host name "=" to address:". I have fixed it the following way: found a string starting with "\c <dbname>" in the Postgres dump file. This statement should be ended by ";". The next statement starting with SET command should at the next line. After that use the above command.

  2. There is another error when populating a new database from the dump. I do not know yet how to fix it.

        ERROR:  syntax error at or near "@"
        LINE 1: SET @saved_cs_client     = @@character_set_client;
                    ^
        ERROR:  unrecognized configuration parameter "character_set_client"
        CREATE INDEX
        NOTICE:  CREATE TABLE / PRIMARY KEY will create implicit index "saved_queries_pkey" for table "saved_queries"
        CREATE TABLE
        ERROR:  syntax error at or near "@"
        LINE 1: SET character_set_client = @saved_cs_client;

