## Puppet overview

Puppet terminology:

  - *resource*: refers to a type having a specific list of attributes like class
    - examples: file, package, service etc.

  - *class*: refers a resource which can be defined only once per node. they do
    not accept any parameters but can inherit other class. examples: nodes.

  - *definition*: refers to a resource which can be defined and used with
    different inputs. they accept parameters but can not inherit another
    definition.  examples: file, package etc.

  - *node*: refers a resource(more specifically a class) representing a client
    with selected atributes. it can inherit one other node. nodes accept
    multiple specification.

Puppet configuration can be stored in version control, e.g. git.

## Install server

    apt-get install puppet puppetmaster

## Authorize a client

On puppetmaster:

  - list outstanding certs

        puppetca --list

  - sign outstanding cert

        puppetca --sign --all
        puppetca --sign backup01.foo.com

## Server configuration tips

The main configuration files mentioned above should not be changed. You have to
change the following if you need:

  - to add a new client to spesific node type edit
    `/etc/puppet/manifests/nodes.pp`
  - to modify a classes edit `/etc/puppet/manifests/classes/*.pp`. they are
    groupped by the tasks.
  - to modify a node edit `/etc/puppet/manifests/templates.pp`

## Troubleshooting

  - Authentication is based on ssl, so if you change the hostname of the
    puppetmaster you need to fix the ssl certs
      - Easy solution:
        1. shutdown the puppetmaster
        1. blow away the ssl certs `rm -r /var/lib/puppet/ssl/*`
        1. restart the puppetmaster
