# smpatch

## determine needed updates and apply updates

    smpatch analyze
    smpatch download
    smpatch update

## individual patch

    smpatch download -i 110710-02 
    smpatch download -i 109326-17
    smpatch download -i 108993-27

    smpatch add -i 110710-02
    smpatch add -i 108993-53
    smpatch add -i 109326-17

## init levels

   - 0: The system is at the PROM monitor (ok>) or security monitor (>) 
      prompt. It is safe to shut down the system when it is at this init state.
   - 1, s or S: This state is known as "single-user" or "system administrator"
      mode. Root is the only user on the system, and only basic kernel 
      functions are enabled. A limited number of filesystems (usually only 
      root and /usr) are mounted. This init state is often used for sensitive
      functions (such as kernel libc patches) or while troubleshooting a 
      problem that is keeping the system from booting into multiuser mode.
   - 2: Multiple users can log in. Most system services (except for NFS server
      and printer resource sharing) are enabled.
   - 3: Normal operating state. NFS and printer sharing is enabled, where 
      appropriate.
   - 4: Usually undefined.
   - 5: Associated with the boot -a command. The system is taken to init 0 
      and an interactive boot is started.
   - 6: Reboot. This state takes the system to init state 0 and then to the 
      default init state (usually 3, but can be redefined in the /etc/inittab
      file).

## single user mode

   - hard disk
        boot -s
   - cdrom disk
        boot cdrom -s

## memory

    prtconf

## processor information

    /usr/sbin/psrinfo -v

## lots of good info

    /usr/platform/`uname -i`/sbin/prtdiag -v

## Solaris version

    cat /etc/release

## run diagnostics tests ttymode

    /opt/SUNWvts/bin/sunvts -t

## memory errors

    grep errID /var/adm/messages*

## 32bit or 64bit kernel

    /usr/bin/isainfo -kv

## upgrade openboot

    grab latest patch from sun, find patch name from
    sun hardware docs

## post diagnostics

   - OpenBoot PROM variable diag-switch? is set to true when you power on
      * diag-level to max or min
   - hold down the keyboard's stop and D

## partition new drive

    format

## create new filesystem

    newfs /dev/rdsk/c0t1d0s6
    fsck -y /dev/rdsk/c0t1d0s6

## add default gateway

    route add default 192.168.105.1

# Solstice DiskSuite

## resync mirror
    metadetach -f d33 d13
    metattach d33 d13

## scan for new devices
    touch /reconfigure
    shutdown -i6 -g0 -y
