## colossus printing codes
For additional information see Solaris Administration Guide Volume 2.

The following filters are defined (colossus):

  - ls: landscape_small_font    - landscape small                   lsf
  - ln: landscape               - landscape normal                  l
  - ps: add_postscript_headers  - convert txt to postscript         aph
  - up: portrait                - portrait                          portrait
  - sm: portrait_small_font     - portrait small font               psf

These filter names are using for the printer convention. The last two letters of printer name coincide with the filter name.

The filter table is in /etc/lp/filter.table. It defines different options for the filters like font size, file input format etc. The option -I affects it.

## add a filter

    filter=landscape
    filter_short=l

    cat > /etc/lp/fd/${filter}.fd <<EOF
    Input types: simple
    Output types: ${filter_short}
    Printer types: any
    Printers: any
    Filter type: slow
    Command: /app/admin/filters/${filter}
    EOF

    lpfilter -f ${filter_short} -F /etc/lp/fd/${filter}.fd

## define a new printer

    filter_short=l
    printer=flhpln
    hostname=florida-hp-4050

  1. add printer with a filter
  this puts all error output into /dev/null instead of printer file

    	  lpadmin -p ${printer} -v /dev/null
    	  lpadmin -p ${printer} -m netstandard 
    	  lpadmin -p ${printer} -o dest=${hostname}:9100 -o protocol=tcp -o timeout=10
	      lpadmin -p ${printer} -I ${filter_short} -T unknown
    	  lpadmin -p ${printer} -D "This is a printer"

  2. disable banner printing and error messages.
  this is some kind of contradiction. it should be nobanner=always or nobanner=yes.

    	  lpadmin -p ${printer} -o nobanner=yes
  
  example below sets nobanner option hardcoded.

	      lpadmin -p ${printer} -A none
        
    	  sed 's/^nobanner=no$/nobanner=yes/' /etc/lp/interfaces/${printer} > /tmp/${printer}
	      mv /tmp/${printer} /etc/lp/interfaces/${printer}
	      chown lp:lp /etc/lp/interfaces/${printer}
    	  chmod 775 /etc/lp/interfaces/${printer}

        or alternatevly
        vim /etc/lp/interfaces/${printer}
        :
        %s/^nobanner=no$/nobanner=yes/g
        :wq

  3. enable printer

    	  /usr/bin/enable ${printer}

    you have to use the full path to the 'enable' command otherwise you will get an error "enable: ${printer}: not a shell builtin" (the shell used may contain the same name internal command like bash):
      

  4. start accept jobs
  
        accept ${printer}

  5. check the printer status:
    
    	  lpstat -p ${printer}

## test

    echo "test" | lp -d ${printer}

## remove a printer

    lpadmin -x ${printer_name}

## basic commands to setup a network printer (per Solaris 8 Administration Guide)

  1. Defines printer name and sets the device to /dev/null.

    	  lpadmin -p ${printer} -v /dev/null

  2. Defines the interface script for network printers.

	      lpadmin -p ${printer} -m netstandard 

  3. Sets the destination, protocol and timeout.

    	  lpadmin -p ${printer} -o dest=nimquat:9100 -o protocol=tcp -o timeout=5 
      
  4. Specifies the file content types to which the printer can print 
    directly, and the printer type.

    	  lpadmin -p ${printer} -I postscript -T PS

  5. Adds print filters to the print server.

    	  cd /etc/lp/fd
    	  for filter in *.fd;do
         	name=basename $filter .fd
         	lpfilter -f $name -F $filter
    	  done

  6. Accepts print requests for the printer and enables the printer.
  
    	  accept ${printer}

  7. Adds a description for the printer.

    	  lpadmin -p ${printer} -D "Room 1954 ps" -o nobanner
      
  8. Verifies that the printer is ready.

    	  lpstat -p ${printer}

## useful tips

  to check is printing scheduler is running:

	    lpstat -r

  to check status of all queues:

      lpstat -o all

  status queue for specific printer:
    
      lpstat -o -p ${printer}

      or

      lpq -P ${printer}

  all status information:

      lpstat -t

  status summary information:

      lpstat -s

  remove scheduled tasks for specific username:
  
      lprm -P ${printer} username


## system  command

to run the print scheduler:

	  /usr/lib/lp/lpsched
        
or

	  /etc/init.d/lp start

to shut the print scheduler down:

	  /usr/lib/lp/lpshut

or

	  /etc/init.d/lp stop

Notes: /etc/init.d/lp supports restart option too.

set a system's default printer:

	  lpadmin -d ${printer}

check a system's default printer:

	  lpadmin -d

move printing requests from one printer to another:

	  lpmove ${printer_from} ${printer_to}
